{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18760\viewh13920\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The human is the training which allows us to observe performers in action, their interactions, their limitations, etc. Physical theatre moderates that process.\
\
The machine is the interface that allows us to make sense of the signals by turning them into meaningful content. AI-powered cognitive sciences moderate that process.\
\
The culture can come either before, as a situation for training\'97but then it interferes with the human\'97or after, as a way to build speculative scenarios based on what the machine tells us about the human. Speculative design moderates that process\
\
\
\
-\
\
In order to avoid regurgitating ready-made futures\'97even being critical or pushing them further\'97we need to avoid basing them on the technology.\
\
We have a unique framework in the training, which allows us to base our speculation purely on the human. The machine is a tool to understand the human. An interesting research question would be their mutual influence: \
\'97 if the machine can tell us more about the human, can it help us know ourselves better?\
\'97 what would society & culture look like if humans knew themselves better, understood first-hand their own cognition, how it is embodied, how it develops?\
\'97 which technology would be developed in a society of humans with better metacognition / embodied metacognition?\
\'97 how would these technologies in turn influence these humans? What would it allo them to see? What is the next step up? Or down?\
\
We mentioned before that our strength is in the ability to keep the research question fluid. Maybe that is a great opportunity to research the fluidity of interferences and feedback loops between humans and machines?\
\
\
\
\
Human-Machine Learning; Embodied Metacognition; 
\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Animalistic Technology; Commoning Practices; Agency Negotiation; De-anthropomorphisation; Infectious Moods}